1. List three data sources Power BI can connect to.

Power BI can connect to:

Excel files (.xlsx, .xls)

SQL Server databases

Web APIs or online services (like SharePoint, Salesforce)

Other examples include CSV files, JSON, Oracle, and Azure databases.

2. What is the first step to import data into Power BI Desktop?

Go to the Home tab → Get Data → Choose Data Source (e.g., Excel, CSV, SQL Server) → click Connect.

3. How do you refresh imported data in Power BI?

In Power BI Desktop: Click Refresh on the Home tab.

In Power BI Service: Set up a scheduled refresh if using a gateway or cloud source.

4. What file formats can Power BI import directly? (Name two.)

CSV (.csv)

Excel (.xlsx)
Others include XML, JSON, and text files.

5. What does the "Navigator" window show after selecting a data source?

The Navigator displays:

All tables or sheets available in the data source.

A preview of the data before loading.
You can select one or multiple tables to load or transform.

6. Import Sales_Data.csv and load only the "Product" and "Price" columns.

Steps:

Home → Get Data → Text/CSV → select Sales_Data.csv.

In the Navigator, click Transform Data.

In Power Query, right-click on unwanted columns (e.g., OrderID, Quantity, OrderDate) → Remove Columns.

Click Close & Load.

✅ Result: Only Product and Price columns are imported.

7. How would you change OrderDate to a date format during import?

In Power Query Editor:

Select the OrderDate column.

Go to Transform → Data Type → Date.
Power Query automatically converts the column to date format (e.g., 2023-05-01).

8. What is the difference between "Load" and "Transform Data" in the import dialog?
Option	Description
Load	Immediately imports data as-is into Power BI.
Transform Data	Opens Power Query Editor to clean, filter, and modify data before loading.
9. Why might you see an error when connecting to a SQL database? (Name one reason.)

Possible reasons:

Incorrect server name or credentials.

Firewall restrictions blocking the connection.

Missing drivers (e.g., SQL Server Native Client).

10. How do you replace a data source after importing it?

Go to:
Home → Data source settings → Change Source → Browse or enter new file path / server name → OK → Apply changes.

11. Write the M-code to import only rows where Quantity > 1.
let
    Source = Csv.Document(File.Contents("Sales_Data.csv"), [Delimiter=",", Columns=5, Encoding=65001, Header=true]),
    PromoteHeaders = Table.PromoteHeaders(Source, [PromoteAllScalars=true]),
    FilteredRows = Table.SelectRows(PromoteHeaders, each [Quantity] > 1)
in
    FilteredRows


✅ This filters the table to include only orders where Quantity > 1.

12. How would you change the data source if Sales_Data.csv changed?

If the file name or path changed:
Go to Home → Data source settings → Change Source → Browse to the new file.

If only data structure changed (e.g., new column):
Click Refresh or adjust Power Query steps accordingly.

13. Troubleshoot: Your CSV import fails due to a "mixed data type" error—how do you fix it?

Solutions:

In Power Query, set a consistent data type (e.g., convert all numeric values to Number).

Use Replace Errors or Remove Errors in the Transform tab.

If a column mixes numbers and text, change its type to Text before loading.

14. Connect to a live SQL database with parameters (e.g., filter by year).

Go to Home → Get Data → SQL Server.

Enter Server name and Database name.

Click Advanced options → Write SQL query:

SELECT * FROM Sales WHERE YEAR(OrderDate) = @Year


Create a parameter called Year in Power Query and link it to this query.
✅ This allows dynamic filtering by year.

15. How would you automate data imports using Power BI and Power Automate?

Use Power Automate flows to:

Upload or refresh files (like CSVs) in OneDrive or SharePoint.

Trigger a Power BI dataset refresh after the file is updated.

This ensures data in Power BI is always up to date automatically.
