Three types of visuals you can create in Power BI:

Bar chart – Displays data in horizontal bars.

Column chart – Displays data in vertical columns.

Line chart – Shows trends over time.
(Other examples: Pie charts, Cards, Maps, Matrix visuals, etc.)

2️⃣ How to add a slicer to a report:

In Power BI Desktop, open your report page.

Go to the Visualizations pane → click the Slicer icon.

Drag a field (e.g., Quarter) into the Field well of the slicer.

Resize and position the slicer on your canvas.

This allows you to filter visuals interactively by the selected field value.

3️⃣ Difference between a Bar Chart and a Column Chart:
Feature	Bar Chart	Column Chart
Orientation	Horizontal bars	Vertical bars
Use Case	Better for comparing long category names	Better for showing trends across time or categories
4️⃣ How to change the color of a visual background:

Select the visual.

Go to the Format Visual pane (paint roller icon).

Expand the Visual section → Background.

Turn Background ON and choose a color & transparency level.

5️⃣ What does “Drill-down” mean in a visual?

Drill-down allows you to explore data at multiple levels of hierarchy — for example,
Region → Product → Quarter.
By clicking a data point, users can see more detailed data (e.g., from total regional sales down to product-level sales).

🧩 Hands-on Power BI Steps (using Sales_Interactive.xlsx)
6️⃣ Create a Bar Chart showing SalesAmount by Region

Load Sales_Interactive.xlsx into Power BI.

Select Bar Chart from the Visualizations pane.

Drag Region → Y-axis (or Category).

Drag SalesAmount → X-axis (or Values).

7️⃣ Add a Slicer for Quarter to filter all visuals

Add a Slicer visual to the canvas.

Drag Quarter → Field.

Test by clicking Q1 or Q2 — all visuals update automatically.

8️⃣ Format the Bar Chart to show Data Labels

Select the bar chart.

In the Format pane, go to Data labels → turn ON.

Optionally customize font size, color, and display units.

9️⃣ Use a Line Chart to show SalesAmount trends over Quarter

Insert a Line Chart visual.

Drag Quarter → X-axis.

Drag SalesAmount → Y-axis.
This shows how sales change across quarters.

🔟 Add a Tooltip to display Product details on hover

Create a new Tooltip page (via Insert → Page → Tooltip).

Add a table or card showing Product and SalesAmount.

Go back to your main report.

In the bar chart’s Format > Tooltip, select your custom tooltip page.
Now, hovering over a bar shows product details.

11️⃣ Sync Slicers across multiple report pages

Select a slicer (e.g., Quarter).

Go to View → Sync slicers pane.

Choose which pages the slicer applies to.

Turn Sync ON (and optionally Visible).

This keeps filters consistent across pages.

12️⃣ Create a Custom Visual with Dynamic Measure Selection (Sales vs Profit)

Add a What-If parameter or create a field selector table with “Sales” and “Profit”.

Create a DAX measure like:

Selected Measure =
SWITCH(
    SELECTEDVALUE(MeasureSelector[Measure]),
    "Sales", SUM(Sales_Interactive[SalesAmount]),
    "Profit", SUM(Sales_Interactive[Profit]),
    BLANK()
)


Use Selected Measure in your visual to toggle dynamically.

13️⃣ Implement a Hierarchy for Region > Product > Quarter Drill-down

In the Fields pane, drag Product under Region, then Quarter under Product.

Add this hierarchy to a visual (e.g., column chart).

Enable Drill Mode (the double down-arrow icon).

Click a bar to drill down from Region → Product → Quarter.

14️⃣ Use Bookmarks to toggle between two visuals in the same space

Create two visuals (e.g., Bar Chart & Line Chart) in the same spot.

Show the Bar Chart, hide the Line Chart → Create Bookmark 1.

Show the Line Chart, hide the Bar Chart → Create Bookmark 2.

Add Buttons and link each to a bookmark.
This lets users toggle between visuals interactively.

15️⃣ Optimize a slow-rendering report with 10+ visuals

✅ Tips:

Use Aggregations or Data reduction (summarized tables).

Limit visuals per page (combine with tabs or bookmarks).

Turn off unnecessary Interactions.

Use Import mode instead of DirectQuery when possible.

Simplify DAX and remove unused fields.
